---
title: API Overview
layout: single
type: posts
excerpt: "Introduction to the Filewall project"
sidebar:
    nav: "posts"
categories: api-docs filewall
permalink: /:categories/:title
read_time: false
---

The Filewall API is a file processing RESTful API that converts an uploaded file into a secure format by opening it in an encrypted environment, taking screenshots, and converting the screenshots to PDF or another format.

Similar to a fax, this ensures that any malicious content is removed and the end-user receives a clean file.

A typical use case for Filewall is to clean all incoming email attachments to a mail server.

## Workflow

The general workflow is as follows:

1.  Use the `Authorize` endpoint to request an upload URL.
2.  Use the `Upload` endpoint to upload the file to the upload URL.
3.  Call the `Status` endpoint to view the file processing status. Options are:

    *   If the `status` is either **Waiting** or **Processing**, repeat the call in five seconds.
    *   If the `status` is **Finished**, a download URL is displayed.
4.  Download the processed file from the download URL.

## Authorization

The Filewall API requires a valid API key passed in the header of the initial request, as well as when calling the status of a file being processed. To obtain an API key:

1.  Go to [https://filewall.io](https://filewall.io/ "Filewall.io")
2.  Log in to your account. If you don't have an account, sign up for a free account.
3.  Click **[your email address] > Account Settings > Show API Key**

## Uploading a file

1.  To request a new upload URL, send a POST request to the `Authorize` endpoint. See [Authorize](/authorize) for details.
2.  Copy the URL in the `links.upload` field on the response body.
3.  Send a POST request to the `Upload` endpoint. See [Upload](/upload) for details.

## Downloading a file

1.  Send a GET request to the [Status](/status) endpoint using the `links.self` URL returned in the response body of the successful `Authorize` request.
2.  If the file is still processing, wait five seconds before repeating the call.
3.  If the file has finished processing, visit the URL in the `links.download` field in the response body of the [Status](/status) endpoint to download the converted file.

If you run into errors when uploading or requesting an upload URL, contact [Filewall Support](mailto:support@filewall.io).

## Code Samples

Example implementations are available on [Github](https://github.com/filewallio/clients)